Docker Desktop 4.22.0 release notes (#17821)
docker/docs: desktop/release-notes.md

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/releases.md).

## 4.22.0

{% include release-date.html date="2023-07-27" %}

{% include desktop-install.md all=true version="4.22.0" build_path="/" %}

### Upgrades

- [Buildx v0.11.2](https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/tag/v0.11.2)

> - [Compose v2.20.0](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.20.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Compose v2.20.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.20.2)
```

- [Docker Engine v24.0.5](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/24.0/#2405)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

#### For all platforms

> - Extended Settings-Management features to allow IT/admins to disable Docker-Desktop "extensions".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Extended Settings Management features to allow IT/admins to disable Docker Desktop "extensions".
```

- Fixed a bug where enabling Kubernetes from the UI failed when the system is paused.
- Fixed a bug where enabling Wasm from the UI failed when the system is paused.

> - Bindmounts are shown in the **Container** view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Bind mounts are shown in the **Container** view.
```

- You can now download Wasm runtimes when the containerd image store is enabled.

#### For Mac

> - Fixed a bug that prevented Docker Desktop from starting. [docker/for-mac#6890](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6890)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop will use much less CPU and memory when not running containers.
```

Reviewer 4: @doringeman I've added that it's an experimental feature. Not convinced we should add the rest of the note. It works well in a blog post, but not so well in release notes.

Reviewer 5: Can we use `It massively reduces`?
I've heard from Chris that the same expression will be used for the blog. 😁 

Moreover, it's enabled for Windows Hyper-V (not WSL2) as well.

Reviewer 4: Noted! Will change now

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/releases.md).

## 4.22.0

{% include release-date.html date="2023-07-27" %}

{% include desktop-install.md all=true version="4.22.0" build_path="/" %}

### Upgrades

- [Buildx v0.11.2](https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/tag/v0.11.2)
- [Compose v2.20.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.20.2)

> - [Docker Engine v24.0.5](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/24.0/#2405)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Docker Engine v24.0.5](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/24.0/#2405)

```

### New
- [Resource Usage](use-desktop/container.md) has moved from experimental to GA.
- You can now split large Compose projects into multiple sub-projects with [`include`](../compose/multiple-compose-files/include.md).

### Bug fixes and enhancements

#### For all platforms
- Extended Settings Management features to allow IT/admins to disable Docker Desktop "extensions".
- Fixed a bug where turning on Kubernetes from the UI failed when the system was paused.
- Fixed a bug where turning on Wasm from the UI failed when the system was paused.

> - Bind mounts are shown in the **Container** view.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Bind mounts are now shown when you [inspect a container](use-desktop/container.md).
```

- You can now download Wasm runtimes when the containerd image store is enabled.

#### For Mac

- Fixed a bug that prevented Docker Desktop from starting. [docker/for-mac#6890](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6890)

> Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

```

#### For Windows

- Fixed a bug where the self-diagnose tool showed a false-positive failure when vpnkit is expected to be not running. Fixes [docker/for-win#13479](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13479).
- Fixed a bug where an invalid regular expression in the search bar caused an error. Fixes [docker/for-win#13592](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13592).

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

```

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/releases.md).

## 4.22.0

> {% include release-date.html date="2023-07-27" %}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{% include release-date.html date="2023-08-03" %}
```

{% include desktop-install.md all=true version="4.22.0" build_path="/" %}

### Upgrades

- [Buildx v0.11.2](https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/tag/v0.11.2)
- [Compose v2.20.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.20.2)
- [Docker Engine v24.0.5](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/24.0/#2405)

### New
- [Resource Usage](use-desktop/container.md) has moved from experimental to GA.
- You can now split large Compose projects into multiple sub-projects with [`include`](../compose/multiple-compose-files/include.md).

### Bug fixes and enhancements

#### For all platforms

> - Extended Settings Management features to allow IT/admins to disable Docker Desktop "extensions".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Settings Management](hardened-desktop/settings-management.md) now lets you turn off Docker Extensions for your organisation.
```

> - [Settings Management](hardened-desktop/settings-management.md) now lets you turn off Docker Extensions for your organisation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Settings Management](hardened-desktop/settings-management/index.md) now lets you turn off Docker Extensions for your organisation.
```

- Fixed a bug where turning on Kubernetes from the UI failed when the system was paused.
- Fixed a bug where turning on Wasm from the UI failed when the system was paused.
- Bind mounts are now shown when you [inspect a container](use-desktop/container.md).
- You can now download Wasm runtimes when the containerd image store is enabled.

#### For Mac

- Fixed a bug that prevented Docker Desktop from starting. [docker/for-mac#6890](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6890)

> Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.
```

> - Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 6: @aevesdocker @doringeman sorry for late feedback. i wouldn't lead with the fact that this is experimental, it's being rolled out to all users by default.

can we please adjust to:

"Resource Saver is now available on Mac and Windows, optimising Docker Desktop's usage of your system resources when no containers are running."

Reviewer 4: I think we still need to highlight that you'll only see this feature if you have enabled access to experimental features. The current phrasing matches how we've introduced other experimental features in release notes, but how about 
"Resource Saver is now available on Mac and Windows. It optimises Docker Desktop's usage of your system resources when no containers are running. To access this feature, make sure you have enabled access to experimental features."

Reviewer 5: I agree!

And use "It **massively** reduces"? 😁  https://github.com/docker/docs/pull/17821#discussion_r1282978170

Reviewer 6: My only concern here is that we're labelling this as 'experimental' but it's going to be default enabled. But I guess that is the case for all experimental features (e.g. they're _all_ default-enabled), so my concern is perhaps invalid.

Happy to go with the wording you propose @aevesdocker , and also take your steer on whether 'massively' is the right language for the Release Notes. Though I appreciate the marketing @doringeman 😂

> - Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resource Saver is now available on Mac. It optimises Docker Desktop's usage of your system resources when no containers are running. To access this feature, make sure you have [turned on access to experimental features](settings/mac.md) in settings.
```

#### For Windows

- Fixed a bug where the self-diagnose tool showed a false-positive failure when vpnkit is expected to be not running. Fixes [docker/for-win#13479](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13479).
- Fixed a bug where an invalid regular expression in the search bar caused an error. Fixes [docker/for-win#13592](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13592).

> Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.
```

> - Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature for Windows Hyper-V. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.
```

> - Resource Saver is available as an experimental feature for Windows Hyper-V. It reduces the amount of CPU and memory used by Docker Desktop when not running containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resource Saver is now available on Windows Hyper-V. It optimises Docker Desktop's usage of your system resources when no containers are running. To access this feature, make sure you have [turned on access to experimental features](settings/windows.md) in settings.
```
